Things I learned today

Small drone motors do not do well with really high current. the large props are too much of a load to run our current motors. 

need to figure out motor spec-ing it seams that we are asking a whole lot of these drone motors and while we cannnn pump a fuck load of current into them, if the ESC's are properly cooled it seems we have just moved the bottleneck to the motor.  

today heres what happend. I hooked up the test setup with the large, 8 inch dual blade props on two motors, a ccw and cw bldc motor for drones. the ESCs used for this setup were a generic 40 amp model controlled by a simple pwm, servo tester.  the ESC's were mounted to the smaller alumiminum heat sync. the temperature probes were installed on top of the heat sync and also on the escs. the contact the escs were making with the heat sync was pretty solid but there was no thermal grease or thermal compound to ensure excelent heat transfer. other testing methodolgy issues were that the propellers were mounted directly in front of the heat sync and that likely assisted in cooling the ESC's. I did attempt to solve this by adding tape to the gap between heat sync and table but they propellers were still blowing a lot of air over the fins of the heat sync. this produced no noticable diffrence in temperature from the probes. The problem I ran into was that one of the two motors I was testing stopped spinning correctly and I noticed a burning electronics smell. This was a companied by a small amount of smoke coming from the motor itself. It could be powered and attempted to turn but it appears as though one of the windings was shorted or otherwise damaged by the incredibly high heat of the motor. This heat was not measured as the probes were mounted to the heat sync and not the motors. This ended the testing for the evening. 

There are a conclusions I think are safe to draw from this series of testing. 

1. the large 8 inch props are probably too much load for these motors. We have noticed previously that they force the motor to draw more current and they do make the motor hot. for sustained testing these will likely cause the motor to draw too much current and will cause motor melt downs. 
2. The heat sync needs a bit more investigation but should be sufficent for what we need of it for the boat project. 
3. for the next round of testing I should add the last thermal probe to the backside of the motor to moniter temperature and shutoff the test if the motors start to get really hot ( I should probably figure out what too hot actualy is.)
4. We likely need to figure out how to spec these motors. If it turns out that the load on the motors really matters we need to figure out a way to either limit the power draw allowed for the motors we plan on using or we need to change how we plan to power the boat. I think that drone motors, even though they do allow for an incredibly manuverable system may be unable to provide proper thrust for our purpouses. Something more fit for our purpous would likely be a water cooled motor for rc cars and trucks. the rpm would be lower but torque would be way higher and they could be retrofitted onto our existing frame without too many issues. looks like we could get 4 watercooled motors and escs for 200$. 
5. Kinda wondering if we didnt roast the existing drone boat motors. gonna check tommorow after work